Vanuatu and the Museum der Kulturen Basel (MKB) share a common history. The project aims not only to revive these relationships, but to enhance them. The collaboration with the "Digitales Schaudepot" (University of Basel) aims to make the collection held in Basel and its documentation easily accessible. By creating an interactive platform, we hope to establish a foundation for lasting connections and future collaborations.

The project is a digital inventory of the photographs and objects that the Swiss ethnologist Felix Speiser brought back to Basel from his 1910-1912 trip to Vanuatu. This project aims to use a digital platform not only to facilitate access to this collection, which is now housed at the Museum der Kulturen Basel (MKB), but also to enable a multi-perspective and translocal exchange of information. A key objective is to make Felix Speiser's Vanuatu collection and its documentation transparent and to initiate a dialog about it. In doing so, the authority to interpret the photographs and objects on display is consciously handed over.

With the help of the Traditional Knowledge (TK) labels in collaboration with Local Context, the communities can determine the use and availability of the collection. Gaps and errors in the documentation can be discussed via a comment function or added directly in the corresponding field. The interactive platform invites visitors to explore the extensive and diverse collection. Using a map of Vanuatu, visitors can navigate through 83 islands and discover the collection. The platform also offers the opportunity to take a closer look at individual objects and gain new perspectives through entries by other users.
