Showing visual media All of the photographs shown here implicitly or
explicitly reflect a colonial and struc-turally violent context. The aim
of the project is to make Felix Speiser's photographs, housed at the
MKB, accessible to a broader audience, particularly in Vanuatu. However,
digitizing and presenting images from colonial contexts raises numerous
ethical concerns. Photo-graphs and other visual media have significantly
contributed to colonial projects in various ways. The presentation of
images is caught between the decolonial concern for transparency and
access and the endeavour not to reproduce colonial violence. The project
has defined the following categories and decided to handle them
accord-ingly: Unrestricted access: Photographs of animals, landscapes
and buildings as well as of people who are very likely to have consented
to being photographed or who are not recognisable. Restricted access:
Images that implicitly reflect colonial conditions. Images of people for
whom it is unclear whether consent has been given. Access only on
request: Images that explicitly depict colonial conditions and im-ages
that could violate personal rights, such as anthropometric photographs,
depic-tions of nudity and children. Also photographs that show secret
places, occasions or objects and should only be seen by certain people.
No access: Not shown are depictions of extreme physical or military
violence, imag-es in which the dignity of the persons is violated and
who have no power to act, as well as photographs that depict people in
an eroticised manner. Working with this photographs is an ongoing
process. We are constantly revising, adding to and improving our data
sets and endeavour to incorporate new debates and suggestions into our
work. We welcome your feedback and questions, aiming to find an
ethically responsible way to handle the images.
